.TH MUMBLE 1 "2020 August 19"
.SH NAME
mumble - a low-latency, high quality voice chat program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mumble
[\fI\,options\/\fR] [\fI\,<url>\/\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mumble is an open source, low-latency, high quality voice chat software
primarily intended for use while gaming.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show the help text and exit.
.HP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-multiple\fR
.IP
Allow multiple instances of the client to be started.
.HP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR
.IP
Specify an alternative configuration file.
If you use this to run multiple instances of Mumble at once,
make sure to set an alternative \fIdatabase\fR value in the config.
.HP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-noidentity\fR
.IP
Suppress loading of identity files (i.e., certificates.)
.HP
\fB\-jn\fR, \fB\-\-jackname\fR \fI<arg>\fR
.IP
Set custom Jack client name.
.HP
\fB\-\-license\fR
.IP
Show the Mumble license.
.HP
\fB\-\-authors\fR
.IP
Show the Mumble authors.
.HP
\fB\-\-third\-party\-licenses\fR
.IP
Show licenses for third\-party software used by Mumble.
.HP
\fB\-\-window\-title\-ext\fR \fI<arg>\fR
.IP
Sets a custom window title extension.
.HP
\fB\-\-dump\-input\-streams\fR
.IP
Dump PCM streams at various parts of the input chain
(useful for debugging purposes).
.IP \[bu]
raw microphone input
.IP \[bu]
speaker readback for echo cancelling
.IP \[bu]
processed microphone input
.HP
\fB\-\-print\-echocancel\-queue\fR
.IP
Print on stdout the echo cancellation queue state
(useful for debugging purposes).
.SH URL
\fI<url>\fR specifies a URL to connect to after startup instead of showing the
connection  window, and has the following form:
.br
mumble://[<username>[:<password>]@]<host>[:<port>][/<channel>[/<subchannel>...]][?version=<x.y.z>]

The version query parameter has to be set in order to invoke  the  correct
client version. It currently defaults to 1.2.0.
.SH RPC CONTROL
.P
It is possible to remote control a running instance of Mumble using the
following command:
.P
.B mumble rpc
[\fIaction\fR]
.P
Where \fIaction\fR is one of the following:
.RS
.IP \fBmute\fR 0.4i
Mute self
.IP \fBunmute\fR
Unmute self
.IP \fBdeaf\fR
Deafen self
.IP \fBundeaf\fR
Undeafen self
.IP \fBtoggledeaf\fR
Toggle self-deafen status
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mumble\-overlay (1),
.BR murmurd (1).
.SH AUTHORS
mumble and murmurd were written by The Mumble Developers.
