Copyright (c) 2003-2016 ZeroC, Inc. All rights reserved.

This copy of Ice is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 2 as
published by the Free Software Foundation.

Ice is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License version
2 along with this program; if not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses.

Linking Ice statically or dynamically with other software (such as a 
library, module or application) is making a combined work based on Ice. 
Thus, the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License version
2 cover this combined work.

If such software can only be used together with Ice, then not only the 
combined work but the software itself is a work derived from Ice and as
such shall be licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License 
version 2. This includes the situation where Ice is only being used 
through an abstraction layer.

As a special exception to the above, ZeroC grants to the copyright 
holders and contributors of the Mumble project (http://www.mumble.info) 
the permission to license the Ice-based software they contribute to 
Mumble under the terms of the BSD license. This exception does not extend
to the parts of Ice used by Mumble, or to any other derived work: as a 
whole, any work based on Ice shall be licensed under the terms and 
conditions of the GNU General Public License version 2.

You may also combine Ice with any software not derived from Ice, provided
the license of such software is compatible with the GNU General Public 
License version 2. In addition, as a special exception, ZeroC grants you
permission to combine Ice with:
 
 - the OpenSSL library, or with a modified version of the OpenSSL library
   that uses the same license as OpenSSL

 - any library not derived from Ice and licensed under the terms of
   the Apache License, version 2.0 
   (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html) 

If you modify this copy of Ice, you may extend any of the exceptions 
provided above to your version of Ice, but you are not obligated to 
do so.
